#### Authentication

For authentication, Kubernetes uses different authentication modules:

- Client Certificates
  To enable client certificate authentication, we need to reference a file containing one or more certificate authorities by passing the --client-ca-file=SOMEFILE option to the API server. The certificate authorities mentioned in the file would validate the client certificates presented to the API server. A demonstration video covering this topic is also available at the end of this chapter.
- Static Token File
  We can pass a file containing pre-defined bearer tokens with the --token-auth-file=SOMEFILE option to the API server. Currently, these tokens would last indefinitely, and they cannot be changed without restarting the API server.
- Bootstrap Tokens
  This feature is currently in beta status and is mostly used for bootstrapping a new Kubernetes cluster.
- Static Password File
  It is similar to Static Token File. We can pass a file containing basic authentication details with the --basic-auth-file=SOMEFILE option. These credentials would last indefinitely, and passwords cannot be changed without restarting the API server.
- Service Account Tokens
  This is an automatically enabled authenticator that uses signed bearer tokens to verify the requests. These tokens get attached to Pods using the ServiceAccount Admission Controller, which allows in-cluster processes to talk to the API server.
- OpenID Connect Tokens
  OpenID Connect helps us connect with OAuth2 providers, such as Azure Active Directory, Salesforce, Google, etc., to offload the authentication to external services.
- Webhook Token Authentication
  With Webhook-based authentication, verification of bearer tokens can be offloaded to a remote service.
- Authenticating Proxy
  If we want to program additional authentication logic, we can use an authenticating proxy.

#### Authorisation Module

- Node Authorizer
  Node authorization is a special-purpose authorization mode which specifically authorizes API requests made by kubelets. It authorizes the kubelet's read operations for services, endpoints, nodes, etc., and writes operations for nodes, pods, events, etc. For more details, please review the Kubernetes documentation.

- Attribute-Based Access Control (ABAC) Authorizer
  With the ABAC authorizer, Kubernetes grants access to API requests, which combine policies with attributes. [Example.](auth.json)

  To enable the ABAC authorizer, we would need to start the API server with the `--authorization-mode=ABAC` option. We would also need to specify the authorization policy with `--authorization-policy-file=PolicyFile.json`. For more details, please review the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/node/).

- Webhook Authorizer
  With the Webhook authorizer, Kubernetes can offer authorization decisions to some third-party services, which would return true for successful authorization, and false for failure. In order to enable the Webhook authorizer, we need to start the API server with the `--authorization-webhook-config-file=SOME_FILENAME` option, where SOME_FILENAME is the configuration of the remote authorization service. For more details, please see the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/webhook/).

- Role-Based Access Control (RBAC) Authorizer
  In general, with RBAC we can regulate the access to resources based on the roles of individual users. In Kubernetes, we can have different roles that can be attached to subjects like users, service accounts, etc. While creating the roles, we restrict resource access by specific operations, such as create, get, update, patch, etc. These operations are referred to as verbs.

  [RoleExample](role.yml)

  [RoleBindingExample](roleBinding.yml)

  To enable the **RBAC authorizer**, we would need to start the API server with the `--authorization-mode=RBAC` option. With the RBAC authorizer, we dynamically configure policies. For more details, please review the [Kubernetes documentation](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

##### Admission Control

Admission control is used to specify granular access control policies, which include allowing privileged containers, checking on resource quota, etc. We force these policies using different admission controllers, like ResourceQuota, DefaultStorageClass, AlwaysPullImages, etc. They come into effect only after API requests are authenticated and authorized.

To use admission controls, we must start the Kubernetes API server with the `--enable-admission-plugins`, which takes a comma-delimited, ordered list of controller names:
`--enable-admission-plugins=NamespaceLifecycle,ResourceQuota,PodSecurityPolicy,DefaultStorageClass`

##### Authorisation and Authentication Implementation

Demo commands:

```
1. minikube start
2. kubectl config view
3. kubectl create namespace lfs158
4. mkdir rbac
5. cd rbac/
6. openssl genrsa -out student.key 2048 /
7. openssl req -new -key student.key -out student.csr -subj "/CN=student/O=learner" /Create a private key for the student user with openssl tool, then create a certificate signing request for the student user with openssl tool.

8. Create a YAML configuration file for a certificate signing request object, and save it with a blank value for the request field.
  - [signing-request.yaml](rbac/signing-request.yaml)

9. View the certificate, encode it in base64, and assign it to the request field in the signing-request.yaml file
- cat student.csr | base64 | tr -d '\n'
Put this in signing-request.yaml

10. Create the certificate signing request object, then list the certificate signing request objects. It shows a pending state:
  - kubectl create -f signing-request.yaml

11. kubectl get csr
12. Approve the certificate signing request object, then list the certificate signing request objects again. It shows both approved and issued states:
  - kubectl certificate approve student-csr

13. kubectl get csr
14. Extract the approved certificate from the certificate signing request, decode it with base64 and save it as a certificate file. Then view the certificate in the newly created certificate file:
  - kubectl get csr student-csr -o jsonpath='{.status.certificate}' | base64 --decode > student.crt
  - cat student.crt

15. Configure the student user's credentials by assigning the key and certificate:
  - kubectl config set-credentials student --client-certificate=student.crt --client-key=student.key

16. Create a new context entry in the kubectl client's configuration file for the student user, associated with the lfs158 namespace in the minikube cluster:
  - kubectl config set-context student-context --cluster=minikube --namespace=lfs158 --user=student

17. kubectl config view
18. While in the default minikube context, create a new deployment in the lfs158 namespace:
  - kubectl -n lfs158 create deployment nginx --image=nginx:alpine

19. From the new context student-context try to list pods. The attempt fails because the student user has no permissions configured for the student-context:
  - kubectl --context=student-context get pods

// Assigning Permissions

20. Create a [YAML configuration file](rbac/role.yaml) for a pod-reader role object, which allows only get, watch, list actions in the lfs158 namespace against pod objects. Then create the role object and list it from the default minikube context, but from the lfs158 namespace.
  - kubectl create -f role.yaml
  - kubectl -n lfs158 get roles

21.  Create a [YAML configuration file](rbac/rolebinding.yaml) for a rolebinding object, which assigns the permissions of the pod-reader role to the student user. Then create the rolebinding object and list it from the default minikube context, but from the lfs158 namespace. Then:
  - kubectl create -f rolebinding.yaml
  - kubectl -n lfs158 get rolebindings
  - kubectl --context=student-context get pods
```

---
